---
title: "Hybrid Data Assimilation Methods: Application to the DYNASTY Experimental Facility"
collection: conference
type: "Conference"
permalink: /conference/2022-nuthos
venue: "NUTHOS-13: International Topical Meeting on Nuclear Reactor Thermal-Hydraulics, Operation and Safety"
date: 2022-09-07
location: "Hsinchu, Taiwan"
---

**Authors**: Stefano Riva, Antonio Cammi, Carolina Introini, Stefano Lorenzi

**Bibtex citation**:

```{=latex}
@inproceedings{NUTHOS13_2022,
title={Hybrid Data Assimilation Methods: Application to the DYNASTY Experimental Facility},
author ={Riva, Stefano and Cammi, Antonio and Introini, Carolina and Lorenzi, Stefano},
year = {2022},
month = {September},
booktitle    = {NUTHOS - 13$^{\mbox{th}}$ International Topical Meeting on Nuclear Reactor Thermal-Hydraulics, Operation and Safety},
eventdate    = {2022-09-05/2022-09-10},
address     = {Taipei, Taiwan},
pages        = {505-518},
}
```

**Abstract**
> Theoretical modelling of complex systems using Partial Differential Equations (PDE) is one of the most used techniques for design and optimization. The main limitation of this approach is the associated computational cost of the numerical solution, which prevents quick repetitive solving, necessary, for instance, in control applications. The hypotheses and approximations for the model derivation and the uncertainty on the parameters represent additional limitations of mathematical models. In this context, Hybrid Data Assimilation (HDA) methods may help overcome these bottlenecks. These methods aim at integrating Model Order Reduction (MOR) approaches into a Data Assimilation framework. This integration reduces the solution time whilst keeping the accuracy of the models to the desired level. The evaluation of fields then serves as an update to the a priori prediction of the model. Despite being very promising, these techniques need to be tested on complex systems and validated with experimental data. This work aims at being the first step for a deep validation phase to assess their efficiency and reliability. This work applies the Generalized Empirical Interpolation Method (GEIM) and the Parametrized-Background Data-Weak (PBDW) formulation to DYNASTY, an experimental facility for studying natural circulation built at Politecnico di Milano. For the time being, the analysis considers only synthetic data and thus preliminary results only. Nevertheless, they show the potentiality of the discussed methods even when considering complex systems.