---
title: "Inviscid Fluid Simulation Through Incompressible Schrodinger Flow Method: A Finite Element Approach"
collection: conference
type: "Conference"
permalink: /conference/2022-nene
venue: "NENE-2022: Nuclear Energy for New Europe"
date: 2022-09-13
location: "Portoroz, Slovenia"
---

**Authors**: Stefano Riva, Carolina Introini, Antonio Cammi

[Download poster here](http://steriva.github.io/files/2022_09_NENE.pdf)

**Abstract**: Computational fluid dynamics is the standard approach to simulate the behaviour of fluids governed by the Navier-Stokes equations. This problem always involves a suitable treatment of the non-linearity of the advection term in the equations, which is the main bottleneck in performing fast simulations. Moreover, as the Reynolds number increases, the importance of this term becomes larger and larger; for this reason, the Navier-Stokes equations are rarely directly numerically solved, preferring a solution with RANS or LES approaches. These methods model the behaviour of the small scales (totally or partially, respectively), and only the larger scales are directly solved.
In the limit of Reynolds number going to infinite (i.e., viscosity goes to 0), the flow obeys the Euler equations. These equations are still strongly non-linear, and they typically put limitations on the usable time step for stability (a common issue in hyperbolic PDEs). These fluids are referred to as ideal fluids, in which the dissipation given by the viscosity can be neglected.
In 1926, Madelung proposed a hydrodynamical form of quantum mechanics, showing a link between the linear Schrödinger equation and the non-linear Euler ones. In particular, he showed that the latter can be derived from the former, linking the two different physics. Thus, a novel approach to solving complex non-linear PDEs has been proposed, substituting the non-linear Euler equations with the linear one derived by Madelung. The fluid state is now a vector of two complex wavefunctions which satisfy the Schrödinger equation with an incompressibility constraint. This method is called Incompressible Schrödinger Flow, and in literature this problem has been solved using FFT, showing impressive results in the prediction of vortex dynamics.
This work aims at implementing this novel approach in a Finite Element framework so that it is easier to extend it to complex geometries. The results of different simulations will be compared with a classical, state-of-the-art CFD approach. In the future, it would be interesting to investigate the possibility of linking this approach with the temperature equation to include buoyancy effects.