---
title: "Hybrid Data Assimilation Methods: Application to the DYNASTY Experimental Facility"
collection: conference
type: "Conference"
permalink: /conference/2022-ymsr
venue: "YMSR: Young Molten Salt Reactor conference"
date: 2022-06-07
location: "Lecco, Italy"
---

**Authors**: Stefano Riva, Antonio Cammi, Carolina Introini, Stefano Lorenzi

**Abstract**
> Theoretical modelling through Partial Differential Equations is a widespread tool for designing and optimizing engineering systems. However, the main limitation of this approach is the associated computational cost of the numerical solution, which prevents quick repetitive solving, for instance, necessary in control applications. Moreover, mathematical models have limitations related to the hypothesis used to derive the model and the uncertainty of the parameters (e.g., heat transfer coefficient at the boundary, nuclear cross sections or material properties). Nuclear reactors are complex engineering systems which must satisfy tight criteria to operate, and it is necessary to have an accurate estimation of each characterizing quantity of the system, like temperature, power, neutron flux or coolant velocity. Generation IV nuclear reactors usually have a hostile environment due to high temperature, radiation, or corrosion issues, and it is not simple to measure every physical field. In particular, Molten Salt Reactors (MSR) cannot include in-core measurements, and only the boundary is available to place sensors due to the fluid nature of the fuel. Moreover, some fields cannot be easily measured, making a data assimilation process not feasible. However, thanks to the strong coupling of the system, the measured quantities may give an inkling about non-measurable ones. Therefore, it is legitimate to investigate the possibility of getting, for instance, some information on the coolant velocity or the reactor power from the temperature (easier to be measured). 
Since the estimation of the physical fields is a crucial part of the safety of nuclear plants, there is a need to provide suitable tools with an efficient and accurate procedure. These requirements are satisfied by Hybrid Data Assimilation (HDA) methods, which integrate Reduced Order Modelling techniques into a Data Assimilation framework. This integration leads to reduced solution time, the accuracy of the models kept to the desired level and the possibility of using the experimental data as an update to the a priori prediction of the model.
These techniques look very promising, and in literature, there are several works concerning their application to simple numerical cases, showing outstanding results. Therefore, they are mature enough to be tested on actual complex facilities and validated with experimental data. This work aims at being the first step in a deep validation phase to assess their efficiency and reliability. In particular, this work considers three techniques: the Generalized Empirical Interpolation Method (GEIM), the Parametrized-Background Data-Weak (PBDW) formulation and an algorithm for Indirect Reconstruction (IR) of fields. The selected test case is DYNASTY (DYnamics of NAtural circulation for molten SalT internallY heated), an experimental facility for studying natural circulation built at Politecnico di Milano, considering, for the time being, only synthetic data (the results are preliminary only). Nevertheless, they show the potentiality of the methods, even for complex systems. It is a matter of future developments to use experimental data to assess the efficiency and reliability of the HDA techniques.